Docs: Web vs Product Analytics (Revised) (#9772)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/web-analytics/web-vs-product-analytics.mdx

Reviewer: Some internal links to this page would be nice

Author: I updated the Web Analytics FAQ page with a reference to this page. I couldn't find other internal pages where referencing this post made much sense, but it's possible I'm missing some.

---
title: What is the difference between web analytics and product analytics?
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---

import { ComparisonTable } from 'components/ComparisonTable'
import { ComparisonRow } from 'components/ComparisonTable/row'

- [Web analytics](/web-analytics) is for tracking website metrics. It's for marketing websites, blogs, or high volume B2C apps where users aren't logged in.

> - [Product analytics](/product-analytics) is for tracking your product. It's more powerful than web analytics. It's for web and mobile apps.

Reviewer 2: These intro bit doesn't quite land for me atm. Couple of things:

- I think it's better to say "they're good for X" instead "they are for X" – i.e. "web analytics is good for when you want a simplified view etc", "product analytics is good for diving deep and building custom insights".

- We shouldn't say web analytics is for B2C apps, imo. You can use it for that, but it's confusing to say it's web analytics and then talk about apps instead of websites, and these users should probably use product analytics a lot of the time.

- I don't love vague terms like "most powerful". This doesn't mean much.

The TL;DR: we need to explain the difference without creating a bunch of rules around how people use them, if that makes sense?

Author: Agreed. I ended up changing the intro a handful of times and it definitely lost some context and clarity after tightening it up. I ended up doing a small rewrite to incorporate the feedback above:
https://posthog-git-docs-web-vs-product-analytics-ii-post-hog.vercel.app/docs/web-analytics/web-vs-product-analytics

  <ComparisonRow column1={"Limited, pre-defined"} column2={"Any, custom"} feature="Properties" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={"Small teams, marketers"} column2={"Engineering, product, data teams"} feature="Built for" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={"At-a-glance view of website traffic"} column2={"Analysis of product usage and user behavior"} feature="Use case" />
</ComparisonTable>

## When should you use web analytics?

Web analytics gives you a single, pre-built [dashboard](https://us.posthog.com/web) for a high-level overview of your site. It's about collecting data in the aggregate, as opposed to tracking specific interactions from specific users.

It can help you figure out which pages and products are most popular and resonate the most with people.

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png"
  imageDark="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_dark_mode_2024_10_6aa6dc9aeb.png"
  alt="Web analytics dashboard"
  classes="rounded"
/>

You can use web analytics to find out:

> <details>
>   <summary>How many <strong>visitors</strong> were there in recent days, weeks, and months?</summary>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<details>
  <summary>How many visitors were there in recent days, weeks, and months?</summary>
```

Love these dropdowns, very cool, but you don't need to bold text. It doesn't render well on preview.

![Screenshot 2024-11-04 at 17 54 48](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/734f6db5-a3e7-46c8-8de1-304d0db95c3e)

    classes="rounded"
    alt= "User path insight example"
  />
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Look for particularly engaging features with <strong>stickiness</strong></summary>

  Use [stickiness](/docs/product-analytics/stickiness) to find engaging features by seeing how many times users perform an event within a specific time period.

  <ProductScreenshot
    imageLight="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1716289464/posthog.com/contents/stickiness-light.png"
    imageDark="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1716289465/posthog.com/contents/stickiness-dark.png"
    alt="Stickiness insight example"
    classes="rounded"
  />
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Visualize user cohorts and <strong>retention</strong> metrics</summary>

  Use [retention](/docs/product-analytics/retention) insights to find how many users sign up and come back to use your product after trying it.

  <ProductScreenshot
    imageLight="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/retention_light_805120c74c.png"
    imageDark="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/retention_dark_c319006162.png"
    alt="Retention insight example"
    classes="rounded"
  />

> </details>
> 
> Check out the [product analytics docs](/docs/product-analytics) for more examples and guides.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
</details>

<br />

Check out the [product analytics docs](/docs/product-analytics) for more examples and guides.
```

needs a hard line break as it's a bit tight on preview

![Screenshot 2024-11-04 at 17 57 28](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0e2b9359-324d-42a1-bcab-888c17e7502b)

---
title: What is the difference between web analytics and product analytics?
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---

import { ComparisonTable } from 'components/ComparisonTable'
import { ComparisonRow } from 'components/ComparisonTable/row'

> [Web analytics](/web-analytics) is a streamlined experience for tracking and monitoring your most important website metrics. [Product analytics](/product-analytics) is a more powerful and flexible experience for tracking your product.

Reviewer 3: Trying out a bullet list to see if it makes it easier to skim.

Also, for the docs, we should be as concise as possible and remove any "marketing speak" e.g. "is a streamlined experienced"
```suggestion
- [Web analytics](/web-analytics) is for tracking website metrics. It's for marketing websites, blogs, or high volume B2C apps where users don't log in.
- [Product analytics](/product-analytics) for tracking your product. It's more powerful than web analytics. It's for web and mobile apps.
```

> When people talk about web analytics, they're generally referring to tracking visitors on your marketing website (e.g. `posthog.com` sessions). They care about things like page views, bounce rate, and top sources of traffic.
> 
> Product analytics is the place to find insights about your application based on usage (e.g. `app.posthog.com` user behavior).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> <ComparisonTable column1="Web analytics" column2="Product analytics">

Reviewer 3: Love the table

Author: Agreed. I can't take credit, though. I pulled the table from the FAQ.

  <ComparisonRow column1={"One, pre-built"} column2={"Unlimited, customizable"} feature="Dashboards" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Custom insights" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={"Pageview, pageleave, conversions"} column2={"Any, custom"} feature="Events" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={"Limited, pre-defined"} column2={"Any, custom"} feature="Properties" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={"Small teams, marketers"} column2={"Engineering, product, data teams"} feature="Built for" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={"At-a-glance view of website traffic"} column2={"Analysis of product usage and user behavior"} feature="Use case" />
</ComparisonTable>

## When should you use web analytics?

> Web analytics gives you a single, pre-built [dashboard](https://us.posthog.com/web) for a high-level overview of your site. It's about collecting data in the aggregate, as opposed to tracking specific interactions from specific users.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Web analytics gives you a single, pre-built [dashboard](https://us.posthog.com/web) for a high-level overview of your site. It's about collecting data in the aggregate, as opposed to tracking specific interactions from specific users.

It can help you figure out which pages and products are most popular and which marketing pages resonate the most with people
```

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png"
    imageDark="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_dark_mode_2024_10_6aa6dc9aeb.png"
    alt="Web analytics dashboard"
    classes="rounded"
/>

> <Caption>Web analytics dashboard</Caption>

Reviewer 3: I dont think we ned a caption here. ITs pretty self-explanatory
```suggestion
```

> You can use web analytics to find out (click the 👀 emojis to see visual examples):

Reviewer: This is cool!

Reviewer 3: This is fire 🔥🔥🔥

> - how many [visitors](/docs/web-analytics/dashboard) there were in the last _X_ days, weeks, or months <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
> - which [pages](/docs/web-analytics/dashboard#paths) people are visiting <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
> - the [bounce rate](/docs/web-analytics/dashboard#bounce-rate) <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
> - all the different [sources of traffic](/docs/web-analytics/dashboard#referrers-channels-utms) to your website <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
> - where visitors are [located geographically](/docs/web-analytics/dashboard#world-map) <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
> - which device types, browsers, and operating systems visitors are using <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
> - how long sessions last on average <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
> - how many people converting <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>

Reviewer: I assume these images are placeholders (they are all the same)
```suggestion
- How many [visitors](/docs/web-analytics/dashboard) there were in the last _X_ days, weeks, or months <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
- Which [pages](/docs/web-analytics/dashboard#paths) people are visiting <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
- The [bounce rate](/docs/web-analytics/dashboard#bounce-rate) <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
- All the different [sources of traffic](/docs/web-analytics/dashboard#referrers-channels-utms) to your website <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
- Where visitors are [located geographically](/docs/web-analytics/dashboard#world-map) <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
- Which device types, browsers, and operating systems visitors are using <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
- How long sessions last on average <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
- How many people converting <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
```

Author: Yes you're right they were just placeholders to get the layout right. I can capture some screenshots and/or gifs and add them in here.

> Using web analytics can help you figure out what content to work on next, which pages and products are most popular, etc.

Reviewer: You can add more to this if you feel inspired

Author: I ended up going with Lior's feedback to remove these lines since it felt like fluff and I couldn't come up with anything compelling. And it does seem like we give a pretty concise answer at the top of the page.

> Using web analytics can help you figure out what content to work on next, which pages and products are most popular, etc.

Reviewer 3: better to include this at the top IMO
```suggestion
Using web analytics can help you figure out what content to work on next, which pages and products are most popular, etc.
```

## When should you use product analytics?

> When you want to dive deeper into the usage of your product, you should use product analytics.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you want to dive deeper into how users are interacting with your product or features.
```

![Product analytics examples](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/f_webp,h_1080,w_1920,c_fill,g_auto,q_auto/v1/posthog.com/contents/templates/thumbnails/featured/prodcut-analytics?_a=AXAH4nI0)

> <Caption>Product analtyics examples</Caption>

Reviewer 3: Same as above. Theres enough context, so caption is unnecessary
```suggestion
```

> Product analytics is all about _how_ people are interacting with your product, as well as _who_ is using it. It gives you insights into metrics such as feature adoption rate, user retention, and churn.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> You can use product analytics to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use product analytics to (click the 👀 emojis to see visual examples):
```

> You can use product analytics to (click the 👀 emojis to see visual examples):

Reviewer 3: Dont think we need to mention this again
```suggestion
You can use product analytics to:
```

> - build custom [Dashboards](/docs/product-analytics/dashboards) <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
> - analyze [Trends](/docs/product-analytics/trends/overview) and patterns in usage data <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
> - find out where people are getting stuck during onboarding with [Funnels](/docs/product-analytics/funnels) <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
> - analyze specific users or [groups of users](/docs/product-analytics/group-analytics) <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
> - follow users along their journey through your product with [User paths](/docs/product-analytics/paths) <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
> - look for particularly engaging features with [Stickiness](/docs/product-analytics/stickiness) <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
> - visualize user cohorts and [Retention](/docs/product-analytics/retention) metrics <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>

Reviewer: Product names are sentence case
```suggestion
- Build custom [dashboards](/docs/product-analytics/dashboards) <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
- Analyze [trends](/docs/product-analytics/trends/overview) and patterns in usage data <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
- Find out where people are getting stuck during onboarding with [funnels](/docs/product-analytics/funnels) <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
- Analyze specific users or [groups of users](/docs/product-analytics/group-analytics) <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
- Follow users along their journey through your product with [user paths](/docs/product-analytics/paths) <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
- Look for particularly engaging features with [stickiness](/docs/product-analytics/stickiness) <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
- Visualize user cohorts and [retention](/docs/product-analytics/retention) metrics <details style="display:inline;"><summary style="padding:0;">👀</summary>![Screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_top_light_mode_2024_10_be53cf5325.png)</details>
```

> Using product analytics helps you understand the usage of specific features, the behavior of specific users, etc. Check out the [product analytics docs](/docs/product-analytics) to see more examples and guides.

Reviewer: Again, adding more here would be great.

> Using product analytics helps you understand the usage of specific features, the behavior of specific users, etc. Check out the [product analytics docs](/docs/product-analytics) to see more examples and guides.

Reviewer 3: moveing some to the top again
```suggestion
Check out the [product analytics docs](/docs/product-analytics) to see more examples and guides.
```
